In this video we'll cover the checkout form layout.
You can easily build forms in Angular.
They have support for form data binding,
validation, and processing.
And Angular provides two types of forms.
You have reactive forms and also template-driven forms.
So with reactive forms
they leverage the programmatic API for form building.
It's a scalable solution,
it's designed for large complex forms,
and the forms can easily be reused and tested.
Now, for template-driven forms,
they're really targeted for small simple basic forms.
They're not really scalable,
and not designed for large complex forms.
So in our scenario we're going to make use of reactive forms
'cause we're going to build a large complex form
that makes use of nested elements,
and this is ideal for building real-time applications.
Now, for a comparison of reactive forms
and template-driven forms,
you can go to the link that I have here on the slide.
They have a detailed analysis comparing reactive forms
and template-driven forms.
But again, we're going to make use of reactive forms
because we're going to build a large complex form.
Okay, so let's take a look at some of the key components.
So you have a FormControl,
so that's an individual control
that tracks the value and the validation status.
And then there's also a FormGroup
that's really just a collection of controls.
And you can also create nested groups.
And then there's some other items there too.
And so the link that I gave you on the previous slide,
they go into more details
as far as the other items that are out there,
but we'll make use of some of the key components,
the FormControl and the FormGroup.
So for our checkout form we'll make use of nested groups.
So we'll have a customer group,
we'll have a shipping address group,
and we'll also have one for billing address,
credit card information,
and then finally at the bottom of our form,
we'll have a section where the user can review their order,
and then finally purchase.
So in this section of videos
we're going to focus on the form construction and layout.
Later on we'll get into populating a form,
and then also we'll get into the work
of processing the form on the backend.
Okay, so in terms of form construction and layout,
here's our development process.
So the first that we'll do
is we'll generate our checkout component.
Then we'll add a new route for the checkout component.
Next we'll create a new checkout button
and link it to that checkout component.
Then we'll add support for reactive forms.
We'll define the form in our component .ts file.
Then we'll lay out the form controls in our HTML template.
And then finally, we'll add an event handler
for the form submission.
All righty, step one of generating our checkout component.
And this is very easy, we've seen this before,
just use ng generate component components/checkout,
and it'll create our checkout component for us.
Then we add a new route for the checkout component.
So in our file app.module.ts
we add this new path here for checkout
and then component to the CheckoutComponent
that was just generated in the previous slide.
And then in step three
we're going to create a new checkout button
and link to the checkout component.
So in our cart details page,
where we have all of our cart items,
we have a new button here, Checkout,
and so that'll actually link over to that routerLink
that we just created, /checkout,
and that'll take us to our given checkout form
that we're going to create.